What we handling an event we can also modify the event we listen. For example when we're handling the submit event
on the form because the default action of the form
is to directly send data to the server then maybe
you want to stop it and instead make
AJAX call to send the request.
In this case we usually make use of the event dot prevent
default in the event handling method that we define.
But it would be better if the method is purely about
data logic rather than having to deal with DOM
event details. For that we can use
event modifier in the v-on directive. Note that the
modifier is called after directive and is denoted
by a dot.
Let's open the event handling three dot
html.
Here we have a form with an input and a submit button.
If we try to click the submit button it will display an alert.
After we hit the OK button
It then will be send to the server.
Now let's go back to our editor then open
the event handling three dot html file.
In the form we can see an event handling for the
submit event which is call the handle submit method
then the handle submit method we call javascript
alert. Now let's modify the v-on submit
by adding dot prevent modifier.
Let's save that
Now if we hit the submit button again the alert show up
but the default action that is send data directly to server
will be stopped.
So now in the handle submit
we can remove the alert and instead let's add a new
framework that we might enter in the text box into
the favorite framework property.
After that we can reset the value of framework property
this dot framework equals empty. Then let's define
the framework in the data property.
And finally let's bind the framework property into our input form.
Now let's go back to our browser
and then try to enter any framework
name then hit the submit button.
as you can see the framework name that we answered
in the text box will be immediately added to the
list.
And because we defined the event handler to the submit
event we can also be able to type any framework name
then press enter key to directly add it to the list.
Now besides prevent vue js also provides other modifiers
such as stop, capture, self, ones and passive.
If you need to know more details about this modifiers you can check out this link.